=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-v2v.conf - configuration file for virt-v2v

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<virt-v2v.conf> describes:

=over

=item *

a set of target profiles which pre-define a set of output options.

=item *

how to map virtual network interface connections when importing them from
another environment.

=item *

software which can be installed by virt-v2v during the conversion process.

=back

=head1 FORMAT

The configuration file is an XML document whose root element is
E<lt>virt-v2vE<gt>.

=head2 Target Profiles

A target profile is used to group a set of configuration options defining a
specific destination for a conversion. A user can specify a target profile in
place of the equivalent command line options.

A target profile is defined by an element in virt-v2v.conf which is a child of
the top-level virt-v2v element. For example:

 <profile name='kvm1'>
   <method>libvirt</method>
   <storage format='raw' allocation='sparse'>default</storage>
   <network type='default'>
     <network type='network' name='red'/>
   </network>
   <network type='bridge' name='xenbr1'>
     <network type='network' name='green'/>
   </network>
 </profile>

A target profile is identified by its I<name> attribute. Allowed elements are:

=over

=item method

The output method, equivalent to the I<-o> command line option. This element is
required.

=item storage

The output storage location, equivalent to the I<-os> command line option. This
element is required.

I<storage> can optionally have I<format> and I<allocation> attributes. If
specified, these are equivalent to the I<-of> and I<-oa> command line options
respectively.

=item network

A set of network mappings specific to this profile. See L</Mapping network
interface connections> for detail of the format of this element.

Network mappings specified in the selected profile will be used in preference to
top-level network mappings. A specific, matching top-level mapping will still be
used in preference to a default specified in a profile.

=back

=head2 Mapping network interface connections

When importing a guest from a different machine and/or hypervisor, it is likely
that the name of the virtual interface its network devices were connected to
will change. For example, a typical Xen guest will be connected to a bridge
device called xenbrN. This bridge is created by Xen and will not exist locally
by default.

virt-v2v can change these on import to connect to an appropriate local
interface. The mapping is specified by the E<lt>networkE<gt> element, which
is a child of the root element. The configuration can specify any number of
E<lt>networkE<gt> elements. E<lt>networkE<gt> has 2 attributes:

=over

=item type

I<type> can be:

=over

=item bridge

A bridge to a host network interface.

=item network

A managed virtual network.

=item default

A type which will match any network if there is no specific match.

=back

For Xen and ESX guests the source type will typically be 'bridge'. A
configuration may only contain a single default mapping.

=item name

name specifies the name of the given network or bridge. A default mapping does
not have a name.

=back

The mapping is specified by a nested E<lt>networkE<gt> element.

The following example specifies that a guest interface which bridged to 'xenbr1'
before conversion should be changed to connect to the local bridge called 'br0'.
Any other network interface should be changed to connect to the local managed
network called 'default':

 <network type='bridge' name='xenbr1'>
   <network type='bridge' name='br0'/>
 </network>

 <network type='default'>
   <network type='network' name='default'/>
 </network>

=head2 Specifying software to be installed

virt-v2v may have to install software in a guest during the conversion process
to ensure it boots. An example is replacing a Xen paravirtualised kernel with a
normal kernel. This software will be specific to the guest operating system.

=head3 Capabilities

A capability describes the set of software required for a specific goal, for
example VirtIO support.  A capability describes only direct dependencies.
Transitive dependencies will be resolved by the installation method, for example
yum or L</"Local Installation">.

E<lt>capabilityE<gt> is a child of the root element. There can be any number of
E<lt>capabilityE<gt> elements. See L</Searching> for a description of the
attributes of E<lt>capabilityE<gt> and how they are matched.

Dependencies are specified in the E<lt>depE<gt> element, which has the following
attributes:

=over

=item name

The symbolic name of a dependency. On an rpm-based system this will be the
package name. This attribute is required.

=item minversion

The minimum required version of the software. For rpm-based systems this must be
specified as [epoch:]version[-release]. This attribute is required.

=item ifinstalled

A dependency must normally be installed if it is not present, or upgraded if it
present but too old. If I<ifinstalled> is 'yes', the dependency will be upgraded
if is present but too old, but not installed if it is not already present.

=back

=head3 Local Installation

If it is not possible to install required software using the guest's update
agent, the software can be installed from the conversion host. In this case, it
must be specified in the E<lt>appE<gt> element. E<lt>appE<gt> is a
child of the root element. The configuration can specify any number of
E<lt>appE<gt> elements. See L</Searching> for a description of the attribute of
E<lt>appE<gt> and how they are matched.

The E<lt>appE<gt> element must contain a E<lt>pathE<gt> element, which specifies
the path to the software. It may also contain any number of E<lt>depE<gt>
elements, which specify the names of additional applications which may need to
be installed. Each dependency will be resolved in the same way as its parent, by
looking for a match based on os, distro, major, minor and arch.

virt-v2v will attempt to install dependencies first. A dependency will only be
installed if it is not already installed, or the installed version is older than
the specified version. On x86_64, virt-v2v will additionally check if an i386
version need to by updated, but only if any i386 version of the package is
already installed.

Paths given in E<lt>pathE<gt> must be absolute, unless there is a top level
E<lt>path-rootE<gt> element. If it exists, all E<lt>pathE<gt> elements will be
relative to E<lt>path-rootE<gt>.

The following example specifies the location of 'kernel' for RHEL 5, all minor
versions, on i686:

 <app os='linux' distro='rhel' major='5' arch='i686' name='kernel'>
   <path>rhel/5/kernel-2.6.18-128.el5.i686.rpm</path>
   <dep>ecryptfs-utils</dep>
   <dep>lvm2</dep>
 </app>
 <app os='linux' distro='rhel' major='5' arch='i386' name='ecryptfs-utils'>
   <path>rhel/5/ecryptfs-utils-56-8.el5.i386.rpm</path>
 </app>
 <app os='linux' distro='rhel' major='5' arch='i386' name='lvm2'>
   <path>rhel/5/lvm2-2.02.40-6.el5.i386.rpm</path>
   <dep>device-mapper</dep>
   <dep>device-mapper-event</dep>
 </app>

 <path-root>/var/lib/virt-v2v/software</path-root>

The kernel can be found at
/var/lib/virt-v2v/software/rhel/5/kernel-2.6.18-128.el5.i686.rpm. It has 2
direct dependencies: ecryptfs and lvm2. ecryptfs-utils has no additional
dependencies, but lvm2 has 2 further dependencies (not shown for brevity). All
dependencies will also be installed if they are not present, or are too old. All
dependency paths are also relative to /var/lib/virt-v2v/software.

=head3 Searching

Both E<lt>capabilityE<gt> and E<lt>appE<gt> are matched in the same way, based
on the following attributes:

=over

=item name

The symbolic name of the software virt-v2v is looking for. name is a mandatory
attribute.

=item os

The name of the guest operating system, as returned by virt-inspector.
This will be a string, like 'linux' or 'windows'.

=item distro

When os='linux', this is the Linux distribution as returned by
virt-inspector.  Possible values include 'rhel', 'debian'.

=item major

The major version name of the guest operating system, as returned by
virt-inspector.

=item minor

The minor version name of the guest operating system, as returned by
virt-inspector.

=item arch

The guest architecture, as returned by virt-inspector.

=back

virt-v2v searches for an E<lt>appE<gt> or E<lt>capabilityE<gt> by symbolic name,
matching based on its additional attributes. If an attribute is missing it will
match any value. If multiple elements would match a given search, virt-v2v will
choose the most specific match. Specifically, it searches in the following
order:

=over

=item *

os, distro, major, minor, arch

=item *

os, distro, major, minor

=item *

os, distro, major, arch

=item *

os, distro, major

=item *

os, distro

=item *

os

=back

If virt-v2v doesn't find a match it will quit with an error describing what it
was looking for.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2009,2010 Red Hat Inc.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Example virt-v2v.conf in the documentation directory,
L<virt-v2v(1)>,
L<virt-inspector(1)>,
L<http://libguestfs.org/>
